---
layout: post
title: WWDC 2017 Quick Note
---

Here is quick summary from WWDC 2017 Keynote.

**Summary**

Before I dive into more developer’s stuff, the highlight in this WWDC for customers are:

 * New upgraded hardware for MacBook Pro and iMac.
 * Refinements for macOS High Sierra.
 * iOS 11 refinements and specialized iOS 11 for iPad.
 * The new home wireless speaker HomePod.

It’s pretty good to see all the updates, but the anticipated new iPhone isn’t available, stay tuned for September then.

For developers, of course, the buzz word of this year’s WWDC  is **Machine Learning**, Tim and Craig mentioned it several times for each topic in the keynote. Apple now provides an easier way to use ML models for our apps through the CoreML framework. We will see a lot of apps come with image recognition, text detection, NLP in the near future.

Another interesting part is the **AR** and **VR**. Apple now has a **ARKit** for developers to build AR-based application easily. For VR, Apple has pushed the Mac and High Sierra (hmm… nice name choice) to work with UNREAL, Unity and SteamVR. So in the future, we should be able to create VR content, and enjoy VR experience with our MacBook.

A little more on **CoreML**, previously, if we want to use ML to do inference, we need to use the BNNS and Metal Performance Shader (MPS) frameworks, which are both quite tedious to setup and code. Re-create a pre-trained model on a different platform isn’t much fun. With CoreML, it is much simpler to use. Apple has provided four popular trained Image recognition models (Places205-GoogLeNet, ResNet50, Inception v3, VGG16), and more will come, either from Apple or from our community. We can convert the model built with Keras or Caffe or Scikit-learn to the new **.mlmodel** format. What’s even better is that Xcode will automatically generate code for .mlmodel models, and you will be able to use the model like any other native cocoa object .

---

1. tvOS
  * more content providers
  * Amazon joins
  * not much else

2. watchOS 4
  * New watch faces
  * Workout app
  * refinements

3. Mac
  * High Sierra
    * Metal 2 (for Graphics & Machine Learning)
    * VR (Unity, Unreal, SteamVR and more)
    * H.265 for 4K video (HEVC)

  * Hardware
	* iMac update (New Intel CPU, AMD GPU)
	* New hardware for **VR** content creation
	* MacBook Pro CPU update
	* iMac Pro

4. iOS 11
  * Apple pay (person to person)
  * Siri for Translation
  * **Live photo edits**
  * Maps (indoor Malls, Airports)
  * Do not disturb while driving
  * Resigned App Store
  * Machine Learning (CoreML framework)
    * Vision API
    * NLP API
	* Apple claims CoreML is pretty fast
  * AR
	* ARKit, really cool demo
  * For Chinese users:
	* QR code support
	* SMS fraud extension
	* Traffic cameras
    * Shanghainese dictation
	* Pinyin keyboard
	* Phone number as Apple ID

5. iPad
  * iPad Pro 10.5’’ inch
  * A10X Chip
  * iOS 11 update for iPad
  * Dock, Multitasking
  * Drag and Drop
  * refinements

6. HomePod
  * breakthrough home speaker
  * rock the house
  * awareness
  * looks good, but ship by end of year.

----
